## Sanitizers

List of the sanitizers currently available - updated 26 Sept 2021

Sanitizer                              | Description
-------------------------------------- | -------------------------------
**blacklist(input, chars)**            | remove characters that appear in the blacklist. The characters are used in a RegExp and so you will need to escape some chars, e.g. `blacklist(input, '\\[\\]')`.
**escape(input)**                      | replace `<`, `>`, `&`, `'`, `"` and `/` with HTML entities.
**ltrim(input [, chars])**             | trim characters from the left-side of the input.
**normalizeEmail(email [, options])**  | canonicalizes an email address. (This doesn't validate that the input is an email, if you want to validate the email use isEmail beforehand)<br/><br/>`options` is an object with the following keys and default values:<br/><ul><li>*all_lowercase: true* - Transforms the local part (before the @ symbol) of all email addresses to lowercase. Please note that this may violate RFC 5321, which gives providers the possibility to treat the local part of email addresses in a case sensitive way (although in practice most - yet not all - providers don't). The domain part of the email address is always lowercased, as it's case insensitive per RFC 1035.</li><li>*gmail_lowercase: true* - GMail addresses are known to be case-insensitive, so this switch allows lowercasing them even when *all_lowercase* is set to false. Please note that when *all_lowercase* is true, GMail addresses are lowercased regardless of the value of this setting.</li><li>*gmail_remove_dots: true*: Removes dots from the local part of the email address, as GMail ignores them (e.g. "john.doe" and "johndoe" are considered equal).</li><li>*gmail_remove_subaddress: true*: Normalizes addresses by removing "sub-addresses", which is the part following a "+" sign (e.g. "foo+bar@gmail.com" becomes "foo@gmail.com").</li><li>*gmail_convert_googlemaildotcom: true*: Converts addresses with domain @googlemail.com to @gmail.com, as they're equivalent.</li><li>*outlookdotcom_lowercase: true* - Outlook.com addresses (including Windows Live and Hotmail) are known to be case-insensitive, so this switch allows lowercasing them even when *all_lowercase* is set to false. Please note that when *all_lowercase* is true, Outlook.com addresses are lowercased regardless of the value of this setting.</li><li>*outlookdotcom_remove_subaddress: true*: Normalizes addresses by removing "sub-addresses", which is the part following a "+" sign (e.g. "foo+bar@outlook.com" becomes "foo@outlook.com").</li><li>*yahoo_lowercase: true* - Yahoo Mail addresses are known to be case-insensitive, so this switch allows lowercasing them even when *all_lowercase* is set to false. Please note that when *all_lowercase* is true, Yahoo Mail addresses are lowercased regardless of the value of this setting.</li><li>*yahoo_remove_subaddress: true*: Normalizes addresses by removing "sub-addresses", which is the part following a "-" sign (e.g. "foo-bar@yahoo.com" becomes "foo@yahoo.com").</li><li>*icloud_lowercase: true* - iCloud addresses (including MobileMe) are known to be case-insensitive, so this switch allows lowercasing them even when *all_lowercase* is set to false. Please note that when *all_lowercase* is true, iCloud addresses are lowercased regardless of the value of this setting.</li><li>*icloud_remove_subaddress: true*: Normalizes addresses by removing "sub-addresses", which is the part following a "+" sign (e.g. "foo+bar@icloud.com" becomes "foo@icloud.com").</li></ul>
**rtrim(input [, chars])**             | trim characters from the right-side of the input.
**stripLow(input [, keep_new_lines])** | remove characters with a numerical value < 32 and 127, mostly control characters. If `keep_new_lines` is `true`, newline characters are preserved (`\n` and `\r`, hex `0xA` and `0xD`). Unicode-safe in JavaScript.
**toBoolean(input [, strict])**        | convert the input string to a boolean. Everything except for `'0'`, `'false'` and `''` returns `true`. In strict mode only `'1'` and `'true'` return `true`.
**toDate(input)**                      | convert the input string to a date, or `null` if the input is not a date.
**toFloat(input)**                     | convert the input string to a float, or `NaN` if the input is not a float.
**toInt(input [, radix])**             | convert the input string to an integer, or `NaN` if the input is not an integer.
**trim(input [, chars])**              | trim characters (whitespace by default) from both sides of the input.
**unescape(input)**                    | replaces HTML encoded entities with `<`, `>`, `&`, `'`, `"` and `/`.
**whitelist(input, chars)**            | remove characters that do not appear in the whitelist. The characters are used in a RegExp and so you will need to escape some chars, e.g. `whitelist(input, '\\[\\]')`.